So I now want to make sure that we can click the pick image button, select an image and then actually store
this as an input, as a value in our form.
Now we already connected the button here to the image picker,
the next step is to do something whenever an image was picked,
right now we just proxy that click but we don't handle the case that the user then picks an image
Now to handle that case too,
we can register any event on the image picker,
so on the file picker here, the change event. This will fire whenever the user changes the selected file,
so if he changes from no files selected to here is a file or if he changes the file thereafter.
So there I want to execute an event or a method I should say and that method is onImagePicked, the name
is of course up to you.
Now I will call that and I will actually forward the native DOM event we're getting here and I can access
this with $event, that's this special variable Angular gives me to access to event object an
event, well had. And this change event has an event object,
I can access it with $event and therefore, I can forward it to onImagePicked by passing it
as an argument. With that,
let's go to the Typescript code and add this method.
There I'll add onImagePicked and I do expect to get an event object here, the type will be event and
that is a default type which you don't have to import,
it's provided by Typescript out of the box because it's a default Javascript type.
So we got our event object here and now, I want to extract the file which was added. So I'll create a new
constant, file
and I can access this by accessing event target which is the, well target on which we clicked and then
the file's property.
The problem just is Typescript doesn't know that our event target actually is an input, a file input and therefore
it doesn't know that this file's property exists.
Now we can solve this by converting this or by explicit telling Typescript that this will be of type
HTML input element. For that, we can simply wrap event target with parentheses and then add as HTML
input element, this does a so-called type conversion and it clearly tells Typescript that this entire
expression here will be an HTML input element which happens to have a files property.
Now files is an array of files
but we will only select one, so we can simply take the first element from that array which is the file
the user selected.
So now we got that and that's great,
the next step is of course that we want to store this in a form control.
Right now, our form only has two controls, title and content,
I now want to change this and actually add a new control.
So let's add a third control here and I'll name this image,
the name is totally up to you.
I'll simply create a new form control here
as before and in this form control, I initially will set a value of null, we'll later change this or
update this down here to also set a value if we got a post
but for now let's go with null here.
So we've got the null value here for a new post,
I will add a validator,
so I will add my configuration with validators and I will add the required validator because I want
to ensure that this is not empty.
Now one thing I'm not doing here is I won't bind this to any HTML element.
You could think that I bind it to this input, to the file picker but I actually won't do that because
we don't see that anyways and I don't want to display anything there,
I also don't want to display an error here on that, at least not like this.
So I will not synchronize this
to HTML and that's the cool thing about the reactive approach.
We don't have to synchronize this,
instead we can totally manage a value behind the scenes in Typescript only.
So this is now a control of the form and we can control the value it has manually with Typescript,
therefore when we submit it, we can access the value,
we don't have to synchronize it to HTML if we don't have a fitting element there.
So we get that image control now and in onImagePicked,
I can now do that well type or that value assignment I was referring to. I can reach out to my form because
it's controlled in Typescript and then I can call patch value.
Now set value is something you already saw, there you would set the values of all inputs or all controls
on your form, patch value allows you to target a single control and that's exactly what I want to
do here.
So we pass an object there too, then the name of the control which is image in my case
and then the value and that is the file.
Please note, the entire file which is a file object in Javascript,
so this is no text, this is a file object,
you are not limited to storing text in your form,
that's another cool thing about that reactive approach.
So now we're storing the file object here,
now one thing I need to do is I need to reach out to my form, get access to my image here and call update
value and validity.
This basically informs Angular that I changed the value and it should re-evaluate that, store that value
internally and also check whether the value I did patch is valid
and that will run the validator on this input even though the user never directly typed in there.
So that's really really cool.
Now with that, let's do something let's console log our file here and let's console log our form here when
we pick an image to see if that works.
So now if I go back and create a new post,
let's pick an image,
my spring.jpg file and we do see the file here, we do see the form group here
and if we inspect the value there, we can see that indeed for the value, that file was assigned and is
stored here
and that's the file object as managed by Javascript.
Now that's a first important step,
we can store that in our form,
of course we're not submitting it yet,
we're not uploading it yet
and before we even do that, it would also be nice to see a preview of that image, I guess.
So let's work on that preview thing next.